From the New York Times, I'm Natalie
Kitroof. [music] This is the Daily.
[music]
On Tuesday, mayors will vote in a
primary [music] for a highstakes Senate
seat that Democrats think they can win
back from Republicans for the first
[music] time in decades.
They're pinning their hopes on
progressive Democrat Graham Platner, a
[music] charismatic oyster farmer and a
combat veteran with a populist message.
But Platner's [music] faced a string of
accusations surrounding his personal
behavior, including new reporting in the
Times that broke last week.
Today, my [music] colleagues Lisa Lair
and Katie Glick explain what this race
means for Maine and for [music] the
prospects of the Democratic Party.
>> [music]
[music]
>> It's Tuesday, June 9th.
>> Hi, Lisa.
>> Hi.
>> Hi, Katie.
So, we have you here because you two
broke this story late last week and I
think it's fair to say that it generated
a huge reaction.
>> I think that's fair to say. It's been
quite the wild couple of days. I think
this story has really divided voters and
strategists and the chattering political
class not only in Maine but just all
over the country. Just to lay it out,
this was a story about the experiences
of past girlfriends of Graham Platner.
Allegations of heavy drinking, physical
intimidation. These were not allegations
of anything criminal. No allegations of
domestic abuse, but some pretty rough
stuff. And we're going to get deeper
into that reporting. But before we do
that, just explain for me the stakes of
what we're talking about here, the
stakes of this race.
I think that in part it reflects just
how critical this race is. Maine is all
but essential to the Democrats path to
retaking the Senate. But, you know, even
before there was any serious talk of who
the Democratic nominee could or should
be, Maine loomed so large in the minds
of Democrats because they thought last
time that Susan Collins was on the
ballot that she was finally going to
lose. Instead, she wins. And so going in
to 2026, people were extremely motivated
to finally mount a campaign that could
actually defeat Senator Collins. You
know, and I also think this race, it's a
place where they have really tested this
thesis, which many Democrats believe
that the party needs new energy, new
leadership, more authentic messengers,
and they are testing that through this
candidate, Graham Platner, who is likely
to be their Democratic nominee in this
race.
>> Okay. So, a lot writing on this, both in
terms of the numbers, as you guys have
said, and in terms of these broader
ideas of what the Democratic Party's
identity is. Let's just talk about how
we got here. Set up this contest for us.
So, at the very beginning of this
contest, there was really a widespread
expectation that the Democratic nominee
would be Janet Mills, who is the
78-year-old two-term governor of Maine.
She was the candidate that was the pick
of Chuck Schumer who really is in charge
of Democrats ambitions for the Senate.
She had the political staff. She was
just a well-known Democratic leader in
this state. And then over last summer,
some progressive operatives and
activists decided that they were really
unhappy with Mills as the pick. And so
they went up to Maine and started
looking for someone else who could
challenge
>> Janet Mills in the Democratic primary.
And they found Graham Platner, who at
the time was running a small oyster farm
in coastal Maine. He had moved back up
in 2016 after spending some time in
Washington, serving in the military. He
had never run for any elected office,
but they decided that this was the guy
who could challenge Janet Mills and
should he win the nomination, eventually
Susan Collins.
>> And why pick him? I get that he reads as
homegrown. You know, he's a little rough
around the edges in a kind of everyman
way, but what about him specifically
felt like the right choice for these
progressives? How did they actually land
on this guy?
>> They had seen a video that he had done
as part of like an aquaculture
association sort of related to the
oysters.
>> An aquaculture association.
>> Yes, that's what the oyster made.
>> Yes.
>> Got it. Um, and you know, he had been
involved with some very local political
fights over aquaculture in the bay where
he has his oyster farm. And they saw
that he could sort of speak compellingly
and what he had to say was essentially
an economic populist message talking
about taking on corruption, taking on
billionaires, and that sort of caught
their attention. And there was also this
idea of from the progressive democratic
side of making this a test case for the
party establishment of this was a place
where they thought that they could sort
of send a message about the kind of
leaders they thought the party should
have.
>> Okay. So these progressives find
Platner. They choose him. They see him
as the foil for Janet Mills. And what
happens? How does it go? In Maine, there
is a new Democrat trying to harvest a
political career, so to speak.
>> He starts taking off. Let's talk about
Flatner who's completely unknown and
untested. He
>> has just kind of exploded on the scene.
>> He has a lot of natural political
talent.
>> My name is Graham Platner and I am
running for United States Senate.
[screaming and cheering]
>> He's sitting for every interview.
>> My guest today is a veteran oyster
farmer and main Senate candidate, Graham
Platner. Graham, [music] great to see
you.
>> Thank you. Our guest this Sunday is
Graham Platner who's running for Senate
in Maine.
>> Let's talk to Graham Platner.
>> Hours and hours and hours of podcasting
of interviews.
>> Relatable.
>> Relatable, right? Um he's doing these
town halls.
>> Until the Democratic Party at the
federal level is no longer beholden to
the same corporate interests that the
Republican party is, we're going to find
ourselves back in this position over and
over [cheering] and over.
>> And he begins to sort of build a
following. We are hanging on by a threat
and we either organize and build power
in fight or we lose
and we can't lose.
[music]
>> So he also benefits from two major
liabilities for Governor Mills. The
first is there is a real strain of
anti-establishment
fervor running through at least some
corners of the Democratic base right
now. People are upset with Democratic
leadership in Washington. And the other
thing is her age. Platner is 41. Mills
is 78. Coming off of the experience of
the 2024 election, a lot of Democrats
are demanding a new generation of
leadership. And the thing that we would
hear from voters over and over is that
no matter how much they respected
Governor Mills,
78 is too old.
>> So he takes off for all the reasons
you're saying, Katie. And then what
happens?
>> So the flip side of finding new outsider
political candidates is sometimes they
have not gone through the kind of
vetting that veteran establishment
politicians have done. and revelations
about a trove of comments he made on
Reddit, some of them quite inflammatory,
come out. Revelations that he had a
tattoo on his chest that was widely
recognized as a Nazi symbol come out and
it sends his campaign into what looks
like freeall. You know, he has staffers
leaving the campaign. There's talk of
NDAs uh being required for the people
who stay. And a lot of people assume
that these controversies are going to
doom him.
>> Lisa, can you say more about both of
these things, both the tattoo and these
Reddit comments? Like, what are we
actually talking about here?
>> So, the tattoo was a skull and
crossbones that Graham Platner had done
on his chest back in 2007 when he was in
the Marines. And it turned out that this
was not just any skull and crossbones,
that this was in fact a Nazi symbol, a
toteen comb.
>> Uhhuh. He actually revealed it himself.
His campaign had gotten word that the
tattoo was going to be put out there by
the media. So, he went on Pod Save
America, a liberal podcast. And
basically what he says is, "I got this
tattoo when I was in the Marines. I
didn't know what it was until this
campaign and what he calls DC insiders
and opposition researchers brought it to
my campaign's attention. And I regret
having it." And he eventually he gets it
covered up. And the phrase he used is,
"I'm not a secret Nazi." He says he's
lived his life like what he as a normal
person. He's taken his shirt off at the
beach and at the gym and no one in his
life ever told him that he had a Nazi
tattoo.
>> Got it. And the Reddit posts,
>> so the Reddit posts are a trove of about
2,000 posts, comments really, that he
made on Reddit from about 2009 to 2021
when he says he stopped posting. It's
clear that he deleted some of the posts
before he entered the campaign. But as
with all things on the internet, deleted
things can often come back and be
refound. And they're just a trove of
commentary. Some of his comments are
quite controversial. Made a few comments
about women sort of poo pooing women who
get raped and sort of questioning why
they are getting so drunk that they end
up raped. He used slurs about gay
people, about mentally disabled people.
And how does Platner explain these
messages?
He has said that many of the most
inflammatory comments he wrote at a very
dark time in his life. Platner is a
combat veteran who served in Iraq and
Afghanistan. And he says that they do
not reflect the man he is today and
urges mayors not to judge him for as he
paraphrasing here the worst thing he
said on the internet on a particularly
bad day 14 years ago.
>> Part of his response is to say look I
served this country. I came out deeply
damaged. That's what you're seeing in
these posts and I regret them. So how
did that land? I think Democratic
strategists immediately see this as a
major liability, not only for his
candidacy in the primary, but also in
the general, given that Republicans have
already said they're going to spend tens
of millions of dollars on ads, no matter
who is the nominee. So, the Mills
campaign sees an opportunity in all of
this and they start running ads
featuring women, particularly featuring
his comments about rape to try to swing
Maine voters towards their side and
build her support. But, you know, it
doesn't really matter if Democrats in
Washington and Millstra just see this as
a liability. What matters, of course, is
what Maine voters think,
>> right?
>> So, we went up to Maine to hear about
that. And there were really a range of
reactions. Some people are really
worried about his comment about women
and the tattoo, and they're worried that
something else could maybe come out
about him that could be damaging.
I think perhaps one of the most striking
moments we observed was a woman who
stood up at a town hall and asked point
blank, "What else do voters need to know
about you?"
>> I hear your heart saying, "You've
changed. You're a different person now."
But they're going to try to find
whatever they can.
>> And specifically, is there an account of
a woman who's going to come out and say
you mistreated her? Is there anything
from your past that they can dig up on a
woman that maybe
no didn't mean no at the time?
>> No.
>> His response was equally striking.
>> I've never had some kind of like weird
relationships with people. I have a lot
of ex-girlfriends. They're all still my
friends.
>> He promised the audience there was
nothing else that would come out. But it
was also really clear that his message
was hitting something really deep that
these Democratic primary voters wanted.
>> Graham Platner has given me hope. He is
a good old boy. He is a regular person.
He is relatable.
>> I think the authenticity of him, his
ability to speak to everyday issues that
are facing mayors. There were a lot of
people who said that he was speaking for
them for working-class voters.
>> The affordability crisis, he definitely
spoke to that and was something that I
personally am struggling with. And you
know,
>> there were a lot of people who believed
he was a new kind of messenger for a
broken political system,
>> marginalized communities, working-class
communities. I mean, we're definitely
been left out of the conversations of
politics for quite some time, right? And
so
>> that he could create sort of a new kind
of politics. [music] For me, a big part
of it is like the apologeticness,
just owning up to things that he's done.
And
>> you know, there's another group of
people who feel a lot of empathy for his
explanation that he made these mistakes
at a very dark period of his life.
>> We've all made dumb decisions and done
things that we wish we hadn't done and
trying to move forward from those kinds
of things. That's really relatable for
me. [music] So I think it becomes clear
that this is a movement and he has built
something [music] here in Maine.
It sounds like there were some doubts
about Platner in the minds of some
voters, but ultimately the enthusiasm
for him, the enthusiasm for his politics
outweighs those misgivings.
>> That's exactly right. And a really
perfect illustration of this is the fact
that the day after we talked to all of
these voters at a town hall in Maine,
same town hall where Platner is facing
some of these really pointed questions,
Governor Janet Mills ends up dropping
out of the race after spending months
trailing Platner in the polls,
struggling to gain traction, and really
running a very low-key campaign. She
says it's because she runs out of money.
And when you run out of money as a
candidate, that's a pretty good sign
that you have not effectively connected
with the voters. Meanwhile, Platner is
continuing to do well in the polls. He's
continuing to rake in the fundraising.
And with Mill's shock decision to drop
out, he effectively immediately becomes
the presumptive Democratic nominee and
the general election is off to the
races. Hm.
>> So, like happens in any sort of marquee
Senate race along with the front runner
status comes the scrutiny
>> and this is when more allegations start
to surface.
>> This is when the rumors that were
already surrounding him go into
hyperdrive. So the first big story that
breaks and it breaks by us in the New
York Times and also in the Wall Street
Journal is that he had been exchanging
explicit messages with multiple women as
recently as May 2025. Of course, his
campaign launches in August 2025. And it
is his wife who confirms the story to
the national media. And the story is
basically that, you know, within the
first two weeks after he announced his
campaign, she went to a campaign staffer
and flagged these messages as a
potential political liability. She says
that they are working through it, that
they're in marriage counseling. They
post a four minute long tearful video
message from her where she sort of
explains the impact this coming out in
the public has on their lives. But it
also sets off this frenzy around what
else there is in terms of Graham
Platner's interactions with women.
>> And this brings us, I assume, to last
Thursday when your story broke.
>> Yes. On Thursday, we published this
story that has been months in the making
that is rooted in more than two dozen
interviews. And it's really based on
allegations from three different women
who dated Platner. [snorts] They
describe reckless and unsettling
behavior. They describe heavy drinking,
infidelity, and in at least one case,
there is the description of physical
intimidation.
>> When you say physical intimidation, what
do you actually mean by that?
Well, a woman who now lives in Virginia,
Lindseay Field, dated Platner from about
2013 to 2015. And she described several
instances of what she said was physical
intimidation. There was one where she
said Graham Platner yanked her out of a
taxi by her wrist.
>> She said that he would kind of grab her
by the shoulders hard enough to leave
marks and kind of move her around from
place to place. And she said once when
they had both been drinking and were
having a fight over infidelity, he
pinned her arm behind her back and sort
of pushed her into a room and held the
door closed. And she says it hurt, you
know, but it didn't break her arm, but
it hurt. But it is important to note
that Lindsay Field said that Platner
never hit her. He never punched her.
That this was physical, but it didn't
cross that line. But beyond the issues
of physical intimidation that Lindseay
Field was alleging, there were other
concerns that she raised. Uh she said
that the way that Platner could talk
about violence would leave her uneasy uh
at times. She says he left an AR-15
lying around his apartment on Capitol
Hill. She also recalled that he would
say pretty disturbing things. For
example, she told us that he would say
the following quote, "If anybody ever
broke in here, I would rape them." Um,
she said that he added that it would not
be quote in a sexual way, not in a gay
way, but that he would quote rape them
to show them that I'm dominant, she
said. And she also added that he knew
the tattoo was a Nazi symbol and he
would joke about it being a Nazi symbol
and called it affectionately mine toten
comp. Wow. And this is notable because
Platner, as you told us, has said
throughout the campaign and recently to
our colleague Lulu Garcia Navaro, that
he didn't know it was a Nazi tattoo.
>> Exactly. And what Lindsay says is not
only did he know, but he and other
members of his unit and the Marines
selected the tattoo because they were,
as she says, quote, like a death unit.
They were killers. and they saw a
parallel between what they were doing
and the Nazi SS unit.
>> And how did you evaluate these claims? I
mean, she's telling you these really
explosive things. How do you corroborate
them? [gasps]
>> So, we looked at texts over the years
between uh Miss Field and Mr. Platner.
We looked at uh Ghat conversations at
Facebook messages between Lindsay and a
number of her friends uh both during and
after the relationship. We saw some of
her diary entries after the relationship
had ended. And we talked to two of her
friends who told us that indeed the pair
had had an emotionally volatile
relationship at the same time. And and
we're clear about this in the story. Uh
you know, those friends could not offer
corroboration from the time regarding
the physical altercations, the most
controversial comments that Lindsay
described. and she told us that she
didn't expect them to be able to offer
that real time cooperation from that
time because she said she didn't tell
anyone at the time, saying that she was
embarrassed. But to be clear, we spoke
with three women who dated Platner on
and off over a period of years, as
recently as 2021. They said spending
time with him could be exhilarating, but
they also recounted patterns of heavy
drinking, of womanizing. One of the
women, for instance, told us about an
incident in 2021 in which Platner was
very drunk. She told him not to come
over. He did anyway. Uh, and she
describes his behavior uh that night as
reckless and unsettling and says she
goes on to cut off contact with him. So
the other element that we had to contend
with in this story is that Lindsay Field
is a conservative and she is someone who
has a long history of working in
Republican politics. She worked for the
Heritage Foundation which is of course a
conservative think tank. She worked for
Independent Women which is a
conservative women's organization and
she worked briefly on Nikki Haley's
primary campaign. These were not things
that she hid from us. She was very open
about her political views and her
political background and said that they
had no influence on the allegations that
she was making against Platner. But, you
know, as part of our corroboration
process and certainly on behalf of Times
readers, we had to look into those
claims and really investigate whether
she did have any ties to the Collins
campaign. And in the end, we could not
find any evidence that she did. And
since the story ran, Susan Collins
herself came out and said she had never
met Lindseay Field or even heard her
name.
>> But of course, just because she doesn't
have a connection to Susan Collins's
campaign doesn't mean that she doesn't
have an agenda, right? H how did you
think about that?
>> Well, I think that was an important
question in the reporting. And so we
dealt with it in a number of ways. We
asked her directly about it and she said
very clearly that she would have brought
the allegations even against a
Republican. And the other thing we did
is we felt it was really really
important to be transparent with Times
readers about what we knew and what we
did not know about her political
background.
>> And how did the Platiner campaign react
when you brought them this reporting
before you publish when you're letting
them know this is what our reporting has
revealed? So, we went to the campaign
with the allegations and ran them
through the story a number of times and
they chose to respond in a few different
ways. First, they chose to specifically
deny two things. One, that Graham
Platner knew what his tattoo symbolized
and knew that it was a Nazi symbol at
any point in time, but specifically when
he got it. Second, being any allegation
of any kind of physical intimidation.
And beyond those two specific denials,
they offered two blanket statements. One
was from Graham Platner himself uh where
he talked about being a less than
perfect boyfriend and said he took
responsibility for that behavior, but
anything beyond that was categorically
false. They also offered a second
statement that came from the campaign
where they really attempted to undercut
Lindseay Field's allegations by pointing
out her conservative background and
really painting her as a Republican
political operative. And they also
connected us to five people including
three former girlfriends who could
testify to Platner's character. And and
so we called all those people and they
described a far more positive
interaction with him and far more
positive characterization of his sort of
intimate relationships.
And then we felt after a pretty
intensive editing and standards process
here at the times, we were ready to
publish after all those months of
reporting. [music]
And so we published
and then all hell broke loose. [music]
>> [music]
[music]
>> We'll be right back.
>> Okay, Lisa, talk us through the hell
breaking loose. So almost immediately it
was absolute mayhem on all the places
that political gadflies, commentators,
strategists gather online.
>> So X
>> X social media, Facebook, all those
kinds of places. And look, you have to
remember everyone across the country is
invested in this race because both sides
want to win control of the Senate. But
they also see at least among Democrats
as this really big struggle over what
the path forward is for this party that
is so deeply in the wilderness right
now. So people really went crazy across
the political spectrum and on the right
and on the left they had a lot of views
about this story. People on the right
said the story downplayed real
allegations that we had intentionally
chosen not to report things that we had
that were more serious than the various
allegations included in our story. And
what was particularly interesting about
that was the people making those claims
included Lindseay Fifeld herself who
said there were much more serious things
out there than we had reported. So the
critics on the right and this source
Lindseay Field are saying you didn't go
far enough. You intentionally protected
Platner.
>> Yes. They're saying that this story
which revealed really serious
allegations about Graham Platner's
conduct in the past was actually a gift
to his campaign because it functioned to
bury more serious allegations that they
believe are out there. And look, that's
just categorically false. The Times is
not in the business of holding back for
any candidate or agenda. We published
everything credible that we had.
>> And what about Democrats? Like what was
the tenor of their response?
>> For more moderate Democratic officials,
this is exactly what they have been
worrying about.
>> I look forward to the day where I am not
answering every single week a question
about bad behavior by another dude. I I
just you saw Senator Alyssa Slaken from
Michigan expressing exasperation about
being asked about yet another Platner
controversy.
>> Being a dirt bag is not authentic. You
know, being a dirt bag is being a dirt
bag.
>> You saw Senator John Federman of of
Pennsylvania go much further in
condemning this. And more broadly, there
is this fear that what should be an an
eminently winnable seat this year and a
year that is looking to be quite
challenging for Republicans is in fact
going to end up backfiring for the
Democrats. And on the progressive left,
there was a very different reaction.
They rallied behind Graham Platner.
>> So I think when you look at politics in
general, uh there are no saints uh in
the United States Senate. People can
argue about this aspect of Grab or
another, but to my mind right now, we
need allies in the United States Senate
who have the guts to take on the big
money.
>> Senator Bernie Sanders restated his
support for Platner and said he was
still standing by him.
>> I'm going to do everything I can to make
sure that Graham Platner is the next
senator from the state of Maine.
[applause]
a number of sort of progressives,
strategists and professionals, activists
online really attempted to downplay the
allegations. And Platner himself kind of
takes the same tact in an interview with
Chris Hayes on MS Now where he denies
the physical allegations and really
pushes this idea that Lindseay Fifeld is
a right-wing operative. And those kinds
of claims about her political background
being the driver of her desire to make
these allegations are really echoed
across the whole ecosystem of the
progressive left.
>> Got it. So, some worry it sounds like
from moderate Democratic officials who
see this as a flashing red warning sign
and progressives on the other hand
saying this doesn't matter. This is not
going to be a problem in a way kind of
more of the same. Talk about voters and
how they reacted to this. Well, our
colleague, Daily producer Caitlyn
O'Keefe, spent the weekend calling main
voters and asked them what they were
making of all this.
Do you know who you're going to vote for
on Tuesday primary day?
>> Absolutely. Supporting Graham Platner.
>> I'm going to vote for Graham Platner.
>> I just can't bring myself to support
[music] Platner.
>> So, there's a couple different groups of
people.
>> At the end of the day, you kind of just
have to figure out if you believe in
someone's character or not. And I
haven't believed in anyone's character
other than Graham Platner for a very
long time.
>> Some of them are just all in on Graham
Platner. I am not marrying the man. I am
not dating the man. I am not expecting
him to be flawless.
>> They think he's flawed. But who isn't
flawed?
>> I don't see any evidence that supports
the fact that he's an abusive person or
did anything ridiculously out of line.
>> And some of those people also question
whether to believe Lindsay Field because
of her conservative background. since
the primary accuser has worked for the
Heritage Foundation.
I mean, seriously,
>> on the other hand, there's a set of
people who are really against Graham
Planner.
>> I don't think he has the demeanor that
we need in a US senator. I think he's a
clown.
>> They were wary of him before, and this
is just confirmed their concerns.
>> Just because that woman happens to work
for the Republicans, the one who is the
chief accuser, doesn't mean she's not
telling the truth. He clearly dated her.
And I thought we were supposed to listen
to women.
>> And they're saying, [music] "Aren't we
supposed to believe women?"
>> If we as progressive women are saying,
"Believe women, except for the ones that
were on the opposite political spectrum
of that is wrong and gross."
>> And some of these people were lifelong
Democrats are lifelong Democrats. And
now they're really thinking about
whether to support Collins in the
general election. Like I never thought
that I would be factchecking Susan
Collins record to see if there's
anything redeemable in it. And here I am
being like gh like how bad is she? Like
it like makes me gross even thinking
about potentially.
>> I'm not a fan of Susan Collins by any
stretch. But I know that she won't
embarrass the state and I'm really
afraid that he will. [music]
>> And lastly, there's just a group of
people who don't know what to do.
They're really torn. I want to vote for
someone who I can fully stand behind and
in an ideal world that would be the
candidate that we have. But if it's not
Platiner, then who is it?
Just pitching forward to that general
election scenario, it does seem entirely
possible that despite all of these
accusations, Platner could still win,
right? It seems clear obviously that
this drip drip drip of revelations has
had an impact on his campaign, but we
don't know if this is actually
disqualifying in the eyes of voters yet.
>> No. And we're a long way to go from the
general election. I know for people who
have been following this race closely,
it feels like we've been in it for a
long time, but there's still many months
to go before a general election. And
this is of course a year that by all
indications and granted it's still
fairly early is likely to favor
Democrats. So it's definitely possible
Graham Platner is the next senator from
Maine. Okay. Just talk about what
lessons Democrats would take from either
outcome here from voters in a general
election rejecting Platner in part
because of his flawed past or of him
winning. Does this race seem like a
referendum on whether this kind of
political scandal matters to Democratic
voters in an era when Republicans seem
to have abandoned morality tests for
some of their most high-profile
candidates?
>> I might look at it slightly differently.
The 2028 presidential election will
start the moment the midterm elections
are over. And people are already using
this race and other key races around the
country to advance their theories of
what it's going to take to win in 28.
And I think no matter what happens, the
result in Maine is going to fuel
arguments about who the next
presidential candidate should be. So if
Platner wins, you are going to see a lot
of the more progressive Democrats who
have rallied to him, who have embraced
his candidacy, say this is the path
forward. We need more candidates who are
speaking out boldly on Medicare for all,
on confronting the oligarchy, on taking
a a much harder line uh toward Israel,
for example, and you know, arguing that
that finding candidates maybe from
outside the traditional system, that
that's the way to connect with
disaffected voters, in particular,
working-class voters.
>> If he loses, uh, the recriminations are
going to be extraordinary. more moderate
Democrats will say this is exactly why
you don't nominate someone who in their
view is too far left, someone who has
far too much personal baggage. We need
to go with someone who has been far more
vetted and experienced. So no matter the
outcome, this race and its outcome is
going to be a microcosm of the
Democratic fights to come over the real
future of the party, which I think will
not be decided until 28. You're saying
Democrats may very well take the result
in Maine as a verdict not just on
Platner but on what they should do in
2028 in the national election.
>> Right. Basically what you're saying is
that this Platner Collins race and what
Democrats ultimately draw from it is
reflective of something that we as a
country have been grappling with. this
rethinking of what we want from our
political leaders. President Trump
represented this huge shift for the
Republican party, someone who's an
outsider who'd never been elected to
anything, who can easily connect with
regular people because he reflects raw
anger that voters have. And now the
Democrats are grappling with something
very similar. It's a different flavor of
that. But that is at its core the
dilemma. What do we actually need our
politicians, our leaders, our
representatives to be for us? I think
that's right. I I think the country is
going through a period of rethinking
what kind of experience they want their
political leaders to have and also what
kind of things that were traditionally
seen as political baggage they're
willing to accept. And we're at a moment
where the country and voters on both
sides are re-evaluating how they view
both experience and baggage. [music]
And I think this main race is testing in
a really big, really high-profile way
how much Democratic [music]
primary voters are willing to prioritize
someone that they feel authentically
represents them over things they may not
like about the person or even questions
of their personal character.
Well, Lisa, [music] Katie, thank you
both so much. Thank you. Thanks for
having us.
[music]
>> We'll be right back.
Here's what else you need to know.
Today, [music] a US Army Apache
helicopter gunship went down near the
straight of Hormuz on Monday and the two
crew members were safely rescued
according to two people briefed on the
incident. It wasn't immediately clear
whether the Apache was shot down by
Iranian fire, [music] experienced
mechanical failure, or ran into some
other problem.
The incident came after days of ups and
downs in the fighting in the Middle East
as Israel and Iran exchanged [music]
military strikes before stepping back.
The Trump administration had not
disclosed news of the downed helicopter
by the time the New York Times reached
out to the White House for comment on
Monday [music] night.
>> [music]
>> Today's episode was produced by Caitlyn
O'Keefe, Nina Feldman, Asta Chathurvedy,
and Chris Benderev [music] with help
from Alex Young. It was edited by MJ
Davis Lynn, and Paige Cowat, and
contains music by Dan Powell, Pat
McCusker, [music]
and Marian Lozano. Our theme music is by
Wonderly. This episode was engineered by
Chris [music] Wood.
>> [music]
[music]
>> That's it for the daily. I'm Natalie
Ketro. See you tomorrow.